---
layout: post
title: Resolutions
joomla_id: 102
joomla_url: resolutions
category: General
date: 2007-12-28 00:00:00.000000000 +10:30
---
<p>Once again it is that time of year where most of us will make the  resolve to change something for the New Year. Usually this ends up with  failed attempts and frustrations with only some being lucky enough to  follow through.<br /><br />Well - it is coming up to one whole year since I  gave up smoking :) I guess this time round I was one of the lucky ones -  although I didn't give up on New Years Eve - it was more like mid  January. Maybe this is why I was successfull? Who knows? (If I did I  would have spent the past year marketing my 'how to give up smoking'  book).<br /><br />But now it's time for me to make some more promises to  myself - this year my biggest goal is to get a little fitter (I managed  to put a few pounds on in the process of giving up smoking), a hard task  for most - hopefully I can apply the same determination to this as I  did to giving up smoking last year (In a way I almost feel that now I've  managed to give up smoking I can achieve anything).<br /><br />A much  harder task to acheive will be getting DMCMS V0.8 into a state where it  is ready to release - this is however one of my New Years Resolutions.<br /><br />Looking  back over the past year a lot of progress was made on the development  of DMCMS in the first 6 months - the whole project was made public on  Sourceforge (there have been nearly 600 downloads to date from the  Sourceforge site), it has been targetted by various hackers exploiting  vulnerabilities in the code (which I see almost as an honour - lol), it  has been promoted on various websites and it has continued to provide  the basis for most of the websites that I create / manage. Unfortunately  the latter part of the year provided no further releases due to other  commitments.<br /><br />My commitment for 2008 is to get the Version 0.8  release finished so that it can be made public - The biggest part of the  V0.8 release is the user management features. The decision to integrate  user management into DMCMS was taken earlier in the year and it has  proven to be quite a bit more work than originally anticipated. The  current test releases have a functioning user management system that  provides user registration and user commenting for registered users. The  plan for the final V0.8 release is to also include a permissions system  so that access can be restricted to created pages.<br /><br />Currently the  permissions system allows users to be split into three different  categories - <br /><br /></p>
<ul>
<li>Users (this category is for registered  users) </li>
<li>Administrators (these users have access to all site  features) </li>
<li>Moderators (these users can modify / delete / add  content).</li>
</ul>
<p><br />These user categories are mostly to deal with  the commenting system - moderators can be made to carry out moderation  functions but thier access to other admin functions is completely  restricted, Administrators obviously have access to do anything and  Users have to be logged in to be able to post (therefore they have to be  registered).<br /><br />No Guest posting is allowed as this will most  probably just event in a lot of unwanted spam. User registration  involves confirmation by email for account activation. I have also added  captcha integration using the reCaptcha API for added anti-spam  security - this may or may not be bindled with the release - I'm not  sure at the moment - I personally think it's great but I also have to  consider the added complexity it presents to the user setting up a DMCMS  installation.<br /><br />The [currently] limited user account types will  have to be expanded to provide access control to created pages, it is  most likely that this will be expanded to customizable user groups. This  route is almost a definate as it fits in well with another project that  I am currently undertaking where I need to provide a seperate area for  each logged in (subscribed) user - the ability to be able to create  unique groups will allow me to be able to assign a group to each user. I  can then create a page specifically for each user where access is only  granted for the group associated with the user. Fully customisable user  groups also allows the end user to choose a name for the groups that  best suit thier site.</p>
<p>This method of access restriction works  well, as a user can be made a member of many groups, meaning that access  can be infinately complex. I may also add a timed function so that  users can be made a member of a particular group from / until a specific  time, this is something that I will need to do for the other project I  am working on as paid subscriptions will be required, it seems logical  to also include the features develped for my other projects in DMCMS  too.</p>
<p>My other New Years Resolutions relate to other projects that  I need to finish - I currently have a web based project that is in the  initial stages of development, a desktop application that is 25% of the  way through, a WM5 application that needs rescuing (it was finished but  then a hard drive failure has meant that I lost some files) and an idea  for another web based project. All of these projects (with the exception  of the last one) need to be finished within the next few months,  fortunately the web based project largely depends on DMCMS V0.8 so it is  likely that this will cause the next DMCMS release to be pushed along  nicely.</p>
<p>Maybe then I will work on my new web idea - but more of  that later....</p>
<p>In the mean time - A Happy New Year to everyone,  and a big Big BIG thanks to everyone who has supported DMCMS over the  past year.</p>
