---
layout: post
title: X10 Kit Arrived
joomla_id: 95
joomla_url: x10-kit-arrived
category: General
date: 2007-10-11 00:00:00.000000000 +09:30
---
<p>I took delivery of my Active Home X10 starter kit yesterday. The kit is  the 7 peice version that includes the Computer interface, appliance  outlet, lamp outlets, bayonet fitting, radio receiver and remote  control. <br /><br />As I already have the mControl demo installed on my  laptop I decided to try and get control of at least one light. I fitted  the bayonet adaptor into my hallway light and then plugged the radio  receiver into a socket outlet. Using the remote I could easily trigger  the appliance adaptor built into the radio receiver; by pressing '1' and  then 'on' I heard a satisfactory click as the relay clicked on and off,  however pressing '2' and then 'on' did not switch the light on as  expected - that is until I realised I needed to obviously leave the  light switch in the on position - D'OH!<br /><br />In less that 5 minutes I  had a working system - I could now turn the hall light on and off from  anywhere in the house and garden (for what pupose I'm not really sure).  The range on the remote control seems very good - I now have it plugged  in at one one of the house and can use the remote from the other with no  problems.<br /><br />So now for the tricky part - getting it to work from  my PC. I put the batteries in the pc adaptor and plugged it in, I then  run the comms cable from the adapator to the comm port on my laptop (the  unit I received is the serial version - a USB version is also  available).<br /><br />With the connections done I opened up the mControl  demo. I created a zone for the Hallway and added an LM14 device as it  did not have an LM15 calling it Hall Light. After I saved it I clicked  on the button to turn the lamp on and hey presto - the light went on!!! <br /><br />So  far so good - this only leaves one thing left to test - My JasJam smart  phone. <br /><br />I have a static IP address as I host some web sites on a  home server which is great for accessing computers whilst i'm away from  home. Its also possible to use some kind of service if you have a  dynamically assigned address that allows you connect to your home  server, but I haven't used this before. <br /><br />Before I could use the  remote interface I created a rule on my firewall to pass port 29990  through to the IP address of my laptop, I then navigated my JasJam's  broswser to http://myipaddress:29990/mobile.aspx<br /> <br />I was  pleasantly surprised to see the zone I had created with the hallway  light in my browser, I could easily turn the light on and off with a  surpringly quick reaction time of only a second or two.<br /><br />mControl  rocks!!! - it worked right 'out of the box' with no fancy configuration  required, the mobile remote access is also great - not only is it  included with the package its easy to use and has well thought out  controls for the small mobile screen.<br /><br />I am more than happy with  the whole system (well - based on installing one light I am - lol) its  easy to setup, use and the mControl software is worth every penny. I  must admit I didn't even load up the software that came with the product  - perhaps this is all you may require but if your're a Media Centre  user I definately reccomend mControl for the integration into the MCE  interface. <br /><br />The browser based access is also great - I tried this  on a small 8" touchscreen which will be the permanent access point for  the whole home automation system, the layout of the mControl interface  works great at this size.<br /><br />All I now need is for the rest of my  X10 parts and the Micro PC to turn up</p>
