---
layout: post
title: Dual Boot Linux And Windows
joomla_id: 105
joomla_url: dual-boot-linux-and-windows
category: General
date: 2008-01-10 00:00:00.000000000 +10:30
---
<p>As some of you may recall, after a recent hard drive crash I invested  in a new laptop and then installed Ubuntu on the old laptop. This was a  great idea as I found that all of the previous issues I had encountered  whilst using Linux seem to have been addressed with Ubuntu (I have  previously used Fedora). The only problem I found was that I was  neglecting the new laptop and using the old machine with Ubuntu on it a  little tto much.<br /><br />With renewed enthusiasm in Lunux I would love to  make the jump from Windows but try as hard as I can - I cant seem to  take the plunge and replace Vista on the new laptop with Linux. This is  mostly due to not being to find a decent replacement for Ultraedit -  I've tried the alternatives - none of which really cut the mustard, I've  even installed Ultraedit running under WINE but nothing quite matches  up to my expectations (Ultraedit is just too sluggish running under wine  to be really useable for me)<br /><br />Well....<br /><br />Although I haven't  one the whole hog - I HAVE taken the plunge and set up the new laptop as  dual boot Linux / Vista.<br /><br />This is actually very easy to do with  Ubuntu Gutsy - basically you'll need to have Vista already installed and  then boot up with the Ubuntu CD. Once booted, click on the 'Install'  icon on the desktop and the installation process will start - it will  ask you a few questions and then launch into the partitioning tool. The  partitioning tool will present you with 3 options - assisted partition /  use whole disk / manual partition. Choose the first option (assisted  partition). The tool will then ask you what size you want to adjust the  partition to - choose a suitable size and then the installer will do the  rest.<br /><br />When the installation is finished it will ask you to  remove the disk from the drive and hit enter - the machine will then  reboot and start with a boot menu allowing you to select what os you  want - the bottom option will be windows.<br /><br />Anyhows.....<br /><br />With  Ubuntu installed on my machine I have opted to install VMware under  Linux so that I can run Windows as a Virtual Machine - this will allow  me to run Ultraedit and the other applications that I need that I can't  find Linux alternatives for (mostly work related applications such as  robot programming clients). Setting it up in this way I can use Ubuntu  as my primary ooperating system :)<br /><br />I have also taken the plunge  and done the same for my company laptop - evolution works flawlessly as  an exchange client and I seem to have less network problems with Ubuntu  than I did with Windows. (plus I can't wait to see the look on the IT  managers face - lol).<br /><br />The coming weeks will be a real test to see  if I can live without windows - it shouldn't be a problem with the  company laptop as I don't do any programming with that machine - just  manager stuff involving the office suite (open office that is ;) ) and  project based stuff for which I already use open workbench.<br /><br />If I  can happily live without booting into Vista on the other machine I will  remove it :D<br /><br />One annoyance has come out of this - my new laptop  came with a recovery disk - the disk is an Asus branded disk that will  only allow installation onto an Asus machine - This however means that  it won't allow me to install Vista into VMware as it  does not see the  virtual machine as an Asus machine - phah!!! - looks like I will have to  revert back to XP for the time being.<strong><br /><br /></strong></p>
<hr width="100%" size="2" />
<p><strong>DMCMS Latest</strong></p>
<p>With  renewed vigour I have been ploughing into getting the next release of  DMCMS ready. At the moment I've been working on groups and group  membership - I'm trying to set it up so that there can be any number of  groups and users can be members of multiple groups - this level of  flexibility when coupled with access permissions granted to group  members should make DMCMS very flexible in terms of managing content  access.</p>
<p>At the moment I'm thinking of access restrictions in terms  of categories -</p>
<p>Basically when you create a category you assign  access rights to one or more groups. - members of these groups will be  able to access any content within the category. Members of other groups  will not.</p>
<p>The same method is applied to the visbility of the  category within the navigation structure - for users who are not a  member of an assigned group the category will not be visible in the  navigation menu.</p>
<p>Eventually I will extend this to a per article  basis so that both categories and individual articles access  restrictions can be set independently.</p>
<p>Other changes include the  removal of forum integration - this will be re-written as a plugin and a  complete re-write of the style / layout dues to too many issues with  the current version.</p>
